This testsuite directory contains a simple testsuite to check the
functionality of OProfile on the machine. The testsuite supports testing
the previous user interface using opcontrol and the new operf interface.
The testsuite also includes tests for the ocount tool.

The testsuite consists of several workloads.  Each workload is run using
an architecture specific list of event sets.  The OProfile report for
each workload run is then checked to make sure the expected symbols that
are specific to that workload are found in the profile report.


Profiling Tool tests

  Running the opcontrol OProfile testsuite requires the following:

  -Superuser privileges
  -The dejagnu and expect packages are installed
  -The OProfile commands to be on the PATH

  The opcontrol tests are run by being in this directory and running the
  following command:

  runtest --tool oprofile-opcontrol


  The system-wide operf OProfile testsuite requires the following:

  -Superuser privileges
  -The dejagnu and expect packages are installed
  -The OProfile commands to be on the PATH

  The system-wide operf tests are run by being in this directory and running
  the following command:

  runtest --tool oprofile-operf

  The single process operf testsuite requires the following:

  -The dejagnu and expect packages are installed
  -The OProfile commands to be on the PATH
  -Note, you should run the command "opcontrol --reset" as root to make sure
   there are no opcontrol data samples around that opreport might accidentally
   pickup on.  The testsuite is setup so it can run as a regular user.  Regular
   users can't delete the opcontrol data.
  -In order to run oprofile-single_process as an normal user, the testsuite
   directories need to be writable by normal user running the test.

  The single process operf tests are run by being in this directory and running
  the following command as either root or a normal user:

  runtest --tool oprofile-single_process


Event Counting tool tests

  The testsuite oprofile-ocount tests the event counting tool ocount.  The
  testsuite runs a series of tests using the ocount tool.

   The tests include:

     - each sample generates non-zero counts
     - counting cycles for an interval of n seconds, 2*n and 4*n scale as
       expected
     - the sum of the counts cycles in user mode only, kernel mode
       only match counting cycles in user and kernel mode

  The ocount tests are run by being in this directory and running the following
  command as either root or a normal user:

  runtest --tool oprofile-ocount


  The testsuite cycle-check-ocount tests tool ocount counting of cycles versus
  the reported CPU frequency.  The reported frequency is not correct for all
  platforms.  Some of the Intel processors can be running in Turbo mode.  In
  Turbo mode the CPU frequency is higher then the reported frequency.  The
  CPU frequency may be lowered by automatic thermal regulation circuits for
  heat management.  This is true for the Power processors.  In this case, the
  actual CPU frequency may be lower then the reported frequency.  These tests
  were put into a separate tool as they should only be run when the user
  has a good understanding of what the actual rather then reported frequency
  for the CPU is.

  The tests include:

     - each sample generates non-zero counts
     - counting cycles for an interval of n seconds matches n*proc_frequency

  The tests will pass or fail based on the reported frequency.  The user will
  need to manually verify if the reported count makes sense for the actual
  CPU frequency.

  The cycle check tests are run by being in this directory and running the
  following command as either root or a normal user:

  runtest --tool cycle-check-ocount


Combined profiling and counting tests

  To run all of the testsuites, with the exception of the cycle check tests,
  (provided the requirements for all of them are met), use the command

  runtest --tool oprofile


The tests will run and at the end should print out the number of tests
that passed and failed. Ideally, there should be no failures listed,
only "# of expected passes".

The testsuite is flexible and should run on a variety of different
architectures without change, but there may be some architectures
which are not yet included in the testsuite.

The testsuite suite is not a exhaustive test of all the options and
features of OProfile. It is designed to automate the simple smoke
tests that people commonly do to make sure that nothing is "horribly
wrong" and that the basic functionality works.

Comments about and additions to the testsuite infrastructure are
appreciated.
